[DOCS] GX Cloud Architecture Supporting Content (#11439)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/docusaurus/docs/reference/learn/gx_in_your_data_pipeline/ingestion.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Ingestion'
title: 'Ingestion'

> ---

Reviewer: This page should have a `description:` in the frontmatter for SEO

Ingesting raw data into a data pipeline can be a complex and often error-prone process, with various challenges that can impact the efficiency and reliability of processes downstream that rely on it. Below are some key challenges and potential pitfalls that can happen during this phase of the data pipeline:

> - **Incomplete Data**: Raw data can often contain gaps or missing values, resulting in incomplete records. This can occur due to various reasons like system failures, human input errors, interruptions in data collection processes and so on. Identifying when data is missing or incomplete is critical at this stage of the data pipeline.

Reviewer: sentence case
oxford comma

```suggestion
- **Incomplete data**: Raw data can often contain gaps or missing values, resulting in incomplete records. This can occur due to various reasons like system failures, human input errors, interruptions in data collection processes, and so on. Identifying when data is missing or incomplete is critical at this stage of the data pipeline.
```

> - **Duplicate Data**: Redundant or duplicate data records can be ingested, especially in streaming pipelines or systems with unreliable deduplication logic, leading to inflated analytics and inaccurate statistics, ultimately resulting in wrong conclusions and misguided decisions. 

Reviewer: sentence case

```suggestion
- **Duplicate data**: Redundant or duplicate data records can be ingested, especially in streaming pipelines or systems with unreliable deduplication logic, leading to inflated analytics and inaccurate statistics, ultimately resulting in wrong conclusions and misguided decisions. 
```

> - **Duplicate Data**: Redundant or duplicate data records can be ingested, especially in streaming pipelines or systems with unreliable deduplication logic, leading to inflated analytics and inaccurate statistics, ultimately resulting in wrong conclusions and misguided decisions. 

Reviewer: " **Duplicate Data**: Redundant or duplicate data records..." feels repetitive. Is there a subtle technical difference between "redundant" and "duplicate"? if no, I suggest simplifying

```suggestion
- **Duplicate Data**: Redundant data records can be ingested, especially in streaming pipelines or systems with unreliable deduplication logic, leading to inflated analytics and inaccurate statistics, ultimately resulting in wrong conclusions and misguided decisions. 
```

> - **Schema Drift**: The structure of the incoming data can sometimes change over time. When the schema drift is drastic or obvious, it can lead to downstream issues like failed jobs or corrupted data. However, more subtle changes can go unnoticed, leading to poor decision-making or inaccurate models.

Reviewer: sentence case

```suggestion
- **Schema drift**: The structure of the incoming data can sometimes change over time. When the schema drift is drastic or obvious, it can lead to downstream issues like failed jobs or corrupted data. However, more subtle changes can go unnoticed, leading to poor decision-making or inaccurate models.
```

> - **Schema Drift**: The structure of the incoming data can sometimes change over time. When the schema drift is drastic or obvious, it can lead to downstream issues like failed jobs or corrupted data. However, more subtle changes can go unnoticed, leading to poor decision-making or inaccurate models.

Reviewer: I find the phrase "or obvious" a bit counterproductive here. If it's obvious why should I invest in tooling to detect it? I suggest removing this for simplicity

```suggestion
- **Schema Drift**: The structure of the incoming data can sometimes change over time. When the schema drift is drastic, it can lead to downstream issues like failed jobs or corrupted data. However, more subtle changes can go unnoticed, leading to poor decision-making or inaccurate models.
```

> - **Volume**: Sometimes ingestion mechanisms themselves can have errors, which can lead to chunks of data not being ingested at all. Identifying and being alerted to these errors at the ingestion point ensures that any issues are addressed sooner rather than later.

Reviewer: I think the "volume" bullet point still feels redundant with the "incomplete data" bullet point.

"data not being ingested at all" as mentioned here seems similar to "gaps" in the first bullet point which I read to mean missing rows.

"ingestion mechanisms themselves can have errors" as mentioned here seems similar to "system failures" and "interruptions in data collection processes" in the first bullet point

I still suggest deleting the volume bullet point in favor of the other three which are all clearly distinct from each other.

```suggestion
```

### How can GX Cloud help solve these problems?

> GX Cloud gives you the freedom to decide when and how to validate your data. If the ingested raw data has already been written to a staging area within your data warehouse, GX Cloud can connect directly to it and run Validations to ensure the integrity of the data. GX Cloud gives you the ability to automatically create Expectations that cover these data quality issues. Additionally, you can also create in-memory Data Assets, allowing you to run Validations on your data before it lands in your data warehouse, thereby allowing you to take steps like deduplication and value backfilling.

Reviewer: The phrasing of "If the ingested raw data has already been written to a staging area" feels off to me. I find the use of "ingested" as an adjective before "written" as a verb a bit confusing. I suggest rephrasing as

```suggestion
GX Cloud gives you the freedom to decide when and how to validate your data. If the raw data has already been ingested to a staging area within your data warehouse, GX Cloud can connect directly to it and run Validations to ensure the integrity of the staged raw data. GX Cloud gives you the ability to automatically create Expectations that cover these data quality issues. Additionally, you can also create in-memory Data Assets, allowing you to run Validations on your data before it lands in your data warehouse, thereby allowing you to take steps like deduplication and value backfilling.
```

> GX Cloud gives you the freedom to decide when and how to validate your data. If the ingested raw data has already been written to a staging area within your data warehouse, GX Cloud can connect directly to it and run Validations to ensure the integrity of the data. GX Cloud gives you the ability to automatically create Expectations that cover these data quality issues. Additionally, you can also create in-memory Data Assets, allowing you to run Validations on your data before it lands in your data warehouse, thereby allowing you to take steps like deduplication and value backfilling.

Reviewer: The mention of automatically creating expectations feels tangential to the main point of this paragraph (where in the pipeline to validate data ingestion). The placement of the automation info in this paragraph interrupts a relationship between the first option (validate staged data in a data warehouse) and the second option (in-memory assets before ingestion). I suggest removing it. 

```suggestion
GX Cloud gives you the freedom to decide when and how to validate your data. If the ingested raw data has already been written to a staging area within your data warehouse, GX Cloud can connect directly to it and run Validations to ensure the integrity of the data. Additionally, you can also create in-memory Data Assets, allowing you to run Validations on your data before it lands in your data warehouse, thereby allowing you to take steps like deduplication and value backfilling.
```

> GX Cloud gives you the freedom to decide when and how to validate your data. If the ingested raw data has already been written to a staging area within your data warehouse, GX Cloud can connect directly to it and run Validations to ensure the integrity of the data. GX Cloud gives you the ability to automatically create Expectations that cover these data quality issues. Additionally, you can also create in-memory Data Assets, allowing you to run Validations on your data before it lands in your data warehouse, thereby allowing you to take steps like deduplication and value backfilling.

Reviewer: The phrasing "Additionally, you can also" feels repetitive. And I'm not sure these two options are additive. Would someone really validate ingestion both in-memory and in warehouse or are they more likely to pick one or the other? perhaps alternatively is a better word

```suggestion
GX Cloud gives you the freedom to decide when and how to validate your data. If the ingested raw data has already been written to a staging area within your data warehouse, GX Cloud can connect directly to it and run Validations to ensure the integrity of the data. Alternatively, you can create in-memory Data Assets, allowing you to run Validations on your data before it lands in your data warehouse, thereby allowing you to take steps like deduplication and value backfilling.
```

> ![Example of how GX Cloud can detect anomalies as raw data is imported into a data warehouse. Expectations like 'Expect column values to be unique' and 'Expect column values to not be null' can be used to clean and sanitize data.](/img/integration-ingestion.png)

Reviewer: I worry that "detect anomalies" in the alt text is misleading since the uniqueness check illustrated is not an anomaly detection test

```suggestion
![Example of how GX Cloud can detect issues as raw data is imported into a data warehouse. Expectations like 'Expect column values to be unique' and 'Expect column values to not be null' can be used to clean and sanitize data.](/img/integration-ingestion.png)
```

> ![Example of how GX Cloud can detect anomalies as raw data is imported into a data warehouse. Expectations like 'Expect column values to be unique' and 'Expect column values to not be null' can be used to clean and sanitize data.](/img/integration-ingestion.png)

Reviewer: is there a meaningful technical difference between "clean" and "sanitize" as used here? If no, I suggest simplifying

```suggestion
![Example of how GX Cloud can detect anomalies as raw data is imported into a data warehouse. Expectations like 'Expect column values to be unique' and 'Expect column values to not be null' can be used to clean data.](/img/integration-ingestion.png)
```

> GX Cloud is designed to fit seamlessly into your data pipelines. GX Cloud offers the ability to either schedule validation runs directly through the UI on a time interval of your choice, or by using the API to trigger validation runs immediately after ingestion is complete. With both methods, you will have immediate feedback on the health of your data and be able to take action to correct errors before they propagate downstream.

Reviewer: is "immediate" overselling the solution? I typically see ad hoc validations in the UI have a loading spinner for a period time before results are returned. 

```suggestion
GX Cloud is designed to fit seamlessly into your data pipelines. GX Cloud offers the ability to either schedule validation runs directly through the UI on a time interval of your choice, or by using the API to trigger validation runs immediately after ingestion is complete. With both methods, you will have timely feedback on the health of your data and be able to take action to correct errors before they propagate downstream.
```

> GX Cloud is designed to fit seamlessly into your data pipelines. GX Cloud offers the ability to either schedule validation runs directly through the UI on a time interval of your choice, or by using the API to trigger validation runs immediately after ingestion is complete. With both methods, you will have immediate feedback on the health of your data and be able to take action to correct errors before they propagate downstream.

Reviewer: "GX Cloud is designed to fit seamlessly into your data pipelines."  feels unrelated to the rest of the paragraph. I suggest dropping it for concision

```suggestion
GX Cloud offers the ability to either schedule validation runs directly through the UI on a time interval of your choice, or by using the API to trigger validation runs immediately after ingestion is complete. With both methods, you will have immediate feedback on the health of your data and be able to take action to correct errors before they propagate downstream.
```
